---
title: "ion-range"
hide_table_of_contents: true
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import Props from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/props.md';
import Events from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/events.md';
import Methods from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/methods.md';
import Parts from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/parts.md';
import CustomProps from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/custom-props.md';
import Slots from '@site/static/auto-generated/range/slots.md';

<head>
  <title>Range Slider | ion-range: Slider Knob Controls with Labels</title>
  <meta name="description" content="ion-range lets you select from a range of values by moving the slider. It accepts dual knobs but one controls the value and labels can be placed on either side." />
</head>

import EncapsulationPill from '@components/page/api/EncapsulationPill';
import APITOCInline from '@components/page/api/APITOCInline';

<EncapsulationPill type="shadow" />

<h2 className="table-of-contents__title">Contents</h2>

<APITOCInline
  toc={toc}
  maxHeadingLevel={2}
  autogenerated={[Props, Events, Methods, Parts, CustomProps, Slots]}
/>


The Range slider lets users select from a range of values by moving the slider knob. By default one knob controls the value of the range. This behavior can be customized using [dual knobs](#dual-knobs).

By default the Range slider has a minimum value of `0` and a maximum value of `100`. This can be configured with the `min` and `max` properties.

import Basic from '@site/static/usage/range/basic/index.md';

<Basic />

TODO: Playground Example

## Range Labels

Labels can be placed on either side of the range by adding the
`slot="start"` or `slot="end"` to the element. The element doesn't have to
be an `ion-label`, it can be added to any element to place it to the
left or right of the range.

TODO: Playground Example

## Dual Knobs

Dual knobs introduce two knob controls that users can use to select a value at a lower and upper bounds. When selected, the Range will emit an `ionChange` event with a value object, containing the upper and lower values selected.

```js
// Example value event detail
{
  lower: 20,
  upper: 80
}
```

import DualKnobs from '@site/static/usage/range/dual-knobs/index.md';

<DualKnobs />

## Pins

TODO: Playground Example

## Ticks

TODO: Playground Example

## Snapping

TODO: Playground Example

## Event Handling

### Using `ionChange`

TODO: Playground Example

### Using `ionKnobMoveStart` and `ionKnobMoveEnd`

TODO: Playground Example

## Styling

TODO: Playground Example

### Theming

TODO: Playground Example

## Interfaces

### RangeChangeEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeChangeEventDetail {
  value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeKnobMoveStartEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeKnobMoveStartEventDetail {
  value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeKnobMoveEndEventDetail

```typescript
interface RangeKnobMoveEndEventDetail {
  value: RangeValue;
}
```

### RangeCustomEvent

While not required, this interface can be used in place of the `CustomEvent` interface for stronger typing with Ionic events emitted from this component.

```typescript
interface RangeCustomEvent extends CustomEvent {
  detail: RangeChangeEventDetail;
  target: HTMLIonRangeElement;
}
```

## Types

### RangeValue

```typescript
type RangeValue = number | { lower: number, upper: number };
```


<Props />
<Events />
<Methods />
<Parts />
<CustomProps />
<Slots />