# Courses

### [Elite Ionic](https://www.joshmorony.com/elite/)

by Josh Morony

Elite Ionic is an online course for Ionic developers who want to move past the basics, and build complex, well tested, high performing, beautiful, and useable mobile applications. It is recommended that you already have a reasonably solid understanding of the basics of Ionic before starting this course.

### [Ionic Academy](https://ionicacademy.com/)

by Simon Grimm

Learn Ionic with step-by-step video courses & quick wins from one of the Ionic community leaders. Covers beginner, intermediate and advanced topics. Get access to a community of developers just like you.

### [Ionic Framework: Tips, Tricks & Techniques](https://www.packtpub.com/mobile/ionic-framework-tips-tricks-and-techniques-video)

by Charles Muzonzini

In this course, you will master tips and best practices for Ionic 4 & Ionic 5 that you can immediately implement to build high quality apps. This course covers a wide variety of topics from increasing app performance, to building custom native plugins, to securing your apps. It's a practical, hands-on course that will take your app building skills to the next level.

### [Building Deskop Apps with Ionic and Electron](https://pluralsight.pxf.io/VeMXO)

by Michael Callaghan at Pluralsight

Desktop development has historically required dramatically different skills than those required for web
development. The two disciplines don't mesh well. In this course, Building Desktop Apps with Ionic and Electron,
you will gain the ability to apply your hard-earned web development skills to build amazing desktop
applications. First, you will learn how to build a functional and attractive UI with Ionic and Angular. Next,
you will discover how to wrap that UI into an Electron application shell. Finally, you will explore how to
package your app and make it ready for distribution. When you are finished with this course, you will have the
skills and knowledge of Ionic and Electron development needed to deploy and distribute a beautiful app to both
Windows and macOS users.

### [Building Progressive Web Apps with Ionic](https://pluralsight.pxf.io/Ly2EY)

by Michael Callaghan at Pluralsight

Everything changed when Google created the concept of Progressive Web Applications or PWA. A PWA is a pure web
application that you can install on devices, that can function with limited network functionality, through its
use of intelligent caching. Build a Progressive Web App that will run anywhere. In this course, Building
Progressive Web Apps with Ionic, you will learn foundational knowledge and gain the ability to create a web
application that will run anywhere: the browser, desktop, or mobile clients. First, you will learn what a
Progressive Web App (or PWA) is. Next, you will discover how to use the Ionic Framework, Angular, and Firebase
to create, deploy, and optimize a basic web application into a full-blown PWA. Finally, you will explore how to
configure the application to make it installable and runnable on Androids and iPhones. When you’re finished with
this course, you will have the skills and knowledge of Ionic and PWAs needed to create and deploy your own
Progressive Web Application anywhere you desire.

### [Ionic CLI](https://pluralsight.pxf.io/ionic-cli)

by Michael Callaghan at Pluralsight

Since its inception, the Ionic Framework has included a rudimentary command line interface. Though only a few
years old, it has matured into a powerful tool that should be part of every developer’s toolbox. This course,
Ionic CLI, will start at the top and explore the Ionic CLI. First, you'll see how to create projects and
components. Next, you will learn how to build and serve apps. Finally, you'll discover how to share projects
with others, and even integrate with other build tools. Whether you’re just starting to explore Ionic, or have
been using it since its pre-beta days, there is something here for you. By the end of the course, you’ll have
the confidence to use the Ionic CLI as part of your everyday Ionic development.

### [Wordpress Rest API and Ionic 4 (Angular) App With Auth](https://www.udemy.com/course/wordpress-rest-api-and-ionic-3-crud/)

by Baljeet Singh at Udemy

### [Building Mobile Apps with Ionic 2, Angular 2, and TypeScript](https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/ionic2-angular2-typescript-mobile-apps/table-of-contents)

by Pluralsight

### [Introducing Ionic 2](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920050353.do)

by Mathieu Chauvinc

### [Ionic 2 Master Course](https://www.udemy.com/ionic-2-tutorial/)

by Udemy

### [Introducing Ionic 2](https://www.udemy.com/introducing-ionic-2/)

by Udemy

### [Ionic 2 Solutions](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/ionic-2-solutions-video)

by Hoc Phan
